# Floating Point Library for Logisim
A Logisim JAR library that adds floating point arithmetic to the simulator.  This library is compatible with both the original version of Logisim as well as [Logisim Evolution (Holy Cross Edition)](https://github.com/kevinawalsh/logisim-evolution).  This library has support for both single and double-precision floating point arithmetic.  Support for other precision levels may be implemented eventually.

# Basic Components
## Adder/Subtractor
The Adder also doubles as a subtractor.  Set the "sub" signal on the top of the component to 1 to subtract.

## Multiplier
The multiplier will multiply two floating point numbers together to produce a single result of the same size as the inputs.

## Divider
The divider will produce a quotient from dividing two numbers together, but not a remainder.  To get a remainder, floor the absolute value of the quotient and then multiply by the denominator.

## Sign Changer (Negator/Absolute Value)
The sign changer can be set to negate mode ("abs" set to 0) or absolute mode ("abs" set to 1) to either negate the floating point number, or to get the absolute value of said number.

# Generating Floating Point Numbers
## Single-Precision
Sign (bit 31):		0 = Positive Number, 1 = Negative Number

Exponent (bits 30-23):	Unsigned number with a bias of 127.  Subtract 127 to get the true value of the exponent.  Note that a result of -127 signals a denormal number where the exponent is really -126.

Mantissa (bits 22-0):	The decimal portion of the floating point number.  The value is assumed to be 1.X times 2^Exponent unless the exponent field is 0.  If the exponent field is 0, then the number is assumed to be 0.X times 2^Exponent.  Note that this field is unsigned and the binary readout is identical between positive and negative numbers.

### Infinity/NaN
Infinity is generated by setting the Exponent field to 255 and the Mantissa field to 0.  NaN is generated by setting the Exponent field to 255 and the mantissa field to something other than 0.

## Double-Precision
Sign (bit 63):		0 = Positive Number, 1 = Negative Number

Exponent (bits 62-52):	Unsigned number with a bias of 1023.  Subtract 1023 to get the true value of the exponent.  Note that a result of -1023 signals a denormal number where the exponent is really -1022.

Mantissa (bits 51-0):	The decimal portion of the floating point number.  The value is assumed to be 1.X times 2^Exponent unless the exponent field is 0.  If the exponent field is 0, then the number is assumed to be 0.X times 2^Exponent.  Note that this field is unsigned and the binary readout is identical between positive and negative numbers.

### Infinity/NaN
Infinity is generated by setting the Exponent field to 2047 and the Mantissa field to 0.  NaN is generated by setting the Exponent field to 2047 and the mantissa field to something other than 0.
